---
layout: post
title: **Review Post**
---

This is my Review Post on the Peter Meindertsma's Study on the Changes of Lyrical and Hit Diversity Among US Top Charting Songs.

(jack-bernhardtaboutme.github.io/images/billboardtop100.jfif)

[I will be reviewing Peter Meindertsma’s Digital Humanities study Changes in Lyrical and Hit Diversity of Popular U.S. Songs 1956-2016 from the 13th Volume of Digital Humanities Quarterly. Meindertsma, a professor in the Department of Language Technology at the University of Groningen in Netherlands, looks at the popular songs of the United States from the years 1956 to 2016 in order to determine and observe changes in diversity between each song. The study asserts that towards the end of the 20th century three worldwide music labels, Universal, Sony, and Warner Music Group, “gradually became a global media oligopoly, a form in which a market or industry is dominated by a small number of sellers” (Meindertsma). This oligopoly, as Meindertsma argues, has thus led to a diminishment of song diversity as these global labels hold all the power in what gets released to the general public. He did this by evaluating the U.S. Billboard Top 100 charts in each year labeling the qualities and quantities of each specific song to establish trends and shifts over time. Meindertsma uses the quantitative perspective, looking at the songs that appeared on the chart over the calendar year and does this by utilizing the song’s popularity and sales. He also uses a qualitative side as well, by examining the song’s variation of variance or as he states “level of pleasantness” within the songs’ lyrics. What Meindertsma found in his results was that the overall diversity, since the 1960’s has decreased persistently until around 2005. However since then, with the introduction of digital sales, diversity in the Top 100 has seen an increase of diversity. Meindertsma believes that changes within the U.S. Billboard Top 100 charts will see more diversity within the lower 40 songs, but will remain fairly stagnant in the top 30 in the future.]
